Welcome back everyone to this lecture for your challenge.
Tasks for the group by section of the course as always will have the challenge presented than the expected
result.
We'll give you hints if you need them and then we'll go over the solution your first challenge task
goes as follows.
We have two staff members with staff ideas 1 and 2.
We want to give a bonus to the staff member that handled the most payments most in terms of number of
payments processed not total dollar amount.
So how many payments that each staff member handle and who gets the bonus here's the expected result
so the expected result is that staff member number two handled seven thousand three hundred and four
payments which was more than staff idea number one.
So staff I.D. number two should get the bonus.
Here's some hints so the hints are to use the payment table and to make sure understand difference between
count and sum since only one of them shouldn't be working here.
All right.
And here's the solution.
The solution is to select staff idea column comma and then count the amount.
Column or really any column and then we'll say from the payment table grouped by staff I.D. And as I
mentioned you can technically pass an asterisk there.
Since you're really just counting the rows per staff member since each row in the payment table represents
a payment and we're assigning the bonus based off the total number of payments we just count the total
number of rows associated per staff I.D..
All right so let's move on to the next challenge corporate headquarters is conducting a study on the
relationship between replacement cost and the movies.
MP A rating that is to say its rating of G P G R etc..
What is the average replacement cost per employee.
A rating note you may need to expand the average column to view the correct results.
Okay here comes the expect the result so the expected result should look something like this.
We have a rating and then its associated average replacement cost per rating.
Here comes some hints the hint is to use the film table and to also recall that average returns back
many significant digits.
So can either stretch out the column as you just saw or you can use the round function to fix this issue.
And here comes a solution so the solution is to select the rating column and then apply the average
function on the replacement cost column from the film table and then group by rating.
As we've previously mentioned the just average function produces many significant digits past the decimal
point.
So if you wanted to you could pass this into round and then only select two places pass the decimal.
And here's our last challenge.
We're running a promotion to reward our top five customers with coupons.
What are the customer I.D. of the top five customers based off total expenditure or total spend.
That is the actual dollar amount.
All right here's the expected result so the expected results are these five customer I.D..
And here are their total amount expenditures.
They should feel pretty familiar we did something very similar to this during the actual lectures.
Here are some hints in case you need them so the hints are to use the payment table and use order by
and recall you can order by the results of an aggregate function and you may want to use limit to view
just the top five results.
Here comes a solution.
So the solution is to select the customer idea column and then take the sum of the amount column from
the payment table grouped by the customer I.D. and then order by some amount.
In descending order and in this case we just wanted the top five.
So we also added limit 5.
All right.
That's it for your challenge tasks.
Hopefully you weren't too bad.
Coming up next we're going to discuss the having class.
I'll see you there.